Hello and welcome to this new tutorial and welcome back to the training.
All right.
So we made some good progress here and the next step is to apply some decay to the learning rates and
that will be thanks to our learning okay and therefore to do that.
I'm taking my learning rate and since the decay consists of multiplying the learning rate by doing red
decay to reduce it by the decay rate.
Well I'm going to multiply this learning rate by our learning rate DK and so now remember that we want
to have a minimum learning rate and therefore to make sure that we're going to add here that if condition
to check if our learning rate that was reduced by the K is lower than this minimum learning rates and
if that's the case if it was decayed reduced too much.
Well we want to set this learning rate equal to this minimum learning rates.
All right.
And that was given in the hyper parameters.
Good so that's a good thing checked.
Now we have to take care of early stopping.
So to take care of this we're going to get first our list of validation less errors and to this list
we're going to spend the last average validation last error that we just got.
All right and then we're going to check if this average validation last error is lower than the minimum
of all old validation plus errors that we append in the list and basically that means that if we manage
to get an average validation error that is lower than all the ones in the list that means that there
is improvement.
And therefore if that's the case we are going to print in quotes.
The first thing the childbirth is going to say like a human.
He's going to say I speak better now because he improved his ability to talk.
Right.
So I think better now he's excited and still if that's the case if we manage to reduce the validation
as air well we will reset the early stopping check variable to zero because we increment it only when
there is no improvement of the validation error and we reset it to zero whenever we find an improvement.
And still if we find a lower validation error.
Well we want to save tomorrow and to save them all we are going to get first a saver object.
Is going to be an object of the saver class taken from the train module taken from the tens of library.
So TFT are trained that Savir here with some parenthesis that creates my object and then I'm going to
take the Savir object again Savir and then use the same method that is going to take two arguments first
session and second are checkpoints which contains the weights.
Perfect.
So that's all we need to do when we find a validation last error that is lower than all the validation
plus errors that we've got so far.
But then if that doesn't happen which we have to include in an else I'm going to scroll down here a
little bit.
So if that doesn't happen meaning if we don't find a validation last area that is lower than all the
ones we've collected so far.
Well in that case our Chad is going to have to say sorry I do not speak better because I did not improve
my ability to speak English and we were going to make our Chad but ambitious he's going to say I need
to practice more.
He's going to practice more because early stopping has not stopped everything yet.
All right then speaking of early stopping since we were not able to find a validation last error lower
than all the ones we've collected so far well we have to increment the early stopping check variable
and therefore I'm taking my early stopping check my goal and I incremented buy one and now that's where
we need to check if this early stuff in check viable has reached the final stop that is to early stopping
start variable which we said equal to 1000.
And that's why I'm going to make a condition here a new one checking if this early stop in check by
vote has reached the early stopping start volleyball equal to 1000.
And if that's the case that's where we have to break everything.
And we even need to stop the main flu.
And therefore we need to repeat that again this if condition.
So we have to paste it here.
Make sure you're at the right level.
So if that's the case what we're going to do is first we're going to print something new.
And we're not only going to make our children ambitious but we're going to make it polite.
He's going to say my apologies.
I cannot speak better.
And the more this is the best I can do.
So we have a very nice chat but we don't want to be too harsh with him.
So this is the best I can do.
And then we're going to break the whole thing by adding a new break here and eventually we will print
game over.
And congratulation guys you have completed part three training the checkbook.
So let's go back up to see if we manage to see the whole thing.
No we can't.
That was huge.
As I told you.
That's OK you can open it in the text there and I highly recommend to take a step back and see all the
flow of the logic of what we did here and now.
Eventually the moment we've all been waiting for we are going to select this whole section to make this
powerful brain that we made in part two.
We're going to make it smart right now.
There we go.
The training is.
Let's fingers crossed it's going to work.
I'm pretty excited that the same time pretty nervous.
But there we go.
It is working.
Welcome guys to the first book with the first batch.
And so there we are.
The training is on its way.
I'm super relieved that this huge followup was executed without any issues I was pretty nervous.
There we go now.
It is happening.
It is on its way.
However the bad news is that it's going to take a huge amount of time.
We're talking several days here at least on my computer so I'm going to leave that during Christmas
because actually right now it's almost Christmas at the time I'm speaking.
We are December 22nd so I'm going to leave that during Christmas.
But no worries have some good news for you.
Until we wait for the results so let's let this run and I'll see you in the next tutorial in part for
testing the chat but to implement the code that will test the chad but how you know we're going to interact
with it speak with it in the console.
But then there's going to be another surprise.
I'm going to give you one of the best shot but implemented in the world.
Until then and Jaideep and I'll be.